---
layout: post
title: Invenstory - decentralized inventory tracking
date: 2024-12-11
description:
tags: project infra
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: false
---

Making a lean inventory tracking system, that will only improve further as tech advances.

A warehouse operates as a **decentralized** system, where each asset that moves inventory operates independently. There is a lot of [research](https://uwaterloo.ca/analytics-optimization-lab/projects/adding-data-analytics-warehouse-logistics) going into how to optimize inventory management in these facilities. I will not bore you with collected data and research developments, but will present to you a fun solution.

How does one start? With tracking the assets that move the inventory.

### How do you track location?

This is a geolocation problem. As inventory is commonly stored in indoor spaces, GPS is out the door. A question at the root of designing the positioning system is:

> Should there be a centralized system tracking the location of each asset or should each asset be aware of its own location?

**System track asset**

This would be a centralized system tracking the location of each asset in a facility. Example: cameras strategically placed around the warehouse tracking the location of all assets using computer vision. It is trivial that this is a cumbersome approach but presented here for clarity.

The benefit is the cost as you don't require the assets to do any computations. Only one "computer" is required to monitor all activities in the warehouse.

**Asset track asset**

This means assets tracking their own location and reporting it to a centralized system. Example: cameras placed on each asset that decodes location by reading barcodes placed around facility.

The benefit here is the reduced complexity as you have multiple agents traversing the facility and self-reporting location, instead of one centralized system concerned with every asset's state. You have all the other benefits that you get with **decentralized** system like fault tolerance, scalability, etc...

One thing that's not easy to see yet is that it opens up doors to an exciting new-ish tracking method, [WiFi fingerprinting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi_positioning_system). It is because the asset can track its own location, we can use this method. The asset will use its signal strength to _K_ nearest routers to compute its location.

---

**Asset track asset** is chosen as the winner. The incurred overhead is worth it, because it enables a) a decentralized system, and b) location triangulation using signal strengths.
